---

layout: col-sidebar
title: Reviewing Code for Cross-Site Request Forgery Issues
permalink: /reviewing-code-for-csrf-issues

---

## Overview

[CSRF](https://owasp.org/www-community/attacks/csrf) is an attack which forces an end user to execute
unwanted actions on a web application in which he/she is currently
authenticated. With a little help of social engineering (like sending a
link via email/chat), an attacker may force the users of a web
application to execute actions of the attacker's choosing. A successful
CSRF exploit can compromise end user data and operation in the case of a
normal user. If the targeted end user is the administrator account, this
can compromise the entire web application.

## Related Security Activities

### Description of CSRF Vulnerabilities

See the OWASP article on [CSRF](https://owasp.org/www-community/attacks/csrf) Vulnerabilities.

### How to Test for CSRF Vulnerabilities

See the [OWASP Testing
Guide](:Category:OWASP_Testing_Project "wikilink") article on how to
[Test for CSRF](https://owasp.org/www-project-web-security-testing-guide/latest/4-Web_Application_Security_Testing/06-Session_Management_Testing/05-Testing_for_Cross_Site_Request_Forgery.html)
Vulnerabilities.

## Introduction

CSRF is not the same as XSS (Cross Site Scripting), which forces
malicious content to be served by a trusted website to an unsuspecting
victim. Injected text is treated as executable by the browser, hence
running the script. Used in Phishing, Trojan upload, Browser
vulnerability weakness attacks…..

Cross-Site Request Forgery (CSRF) (C-SURF) (Confused-Deputy) attacks are
considered useful if the attacker knows the target is authenticated to a
web based system. They only work if the target is logged into the
system, and therefore have a small attack footprint. Other logical
weaknesses also need to be present such as no transaction authorization
required by the user.

In effect CSRF attacks are used by an attacker to make a target system
perform a function (Funds Transfer, Form submission etc..) via the
target’s browser without the knowledge of the target user, at least
until the unauthorized function has been committed. A primary target is
the exploitation of “ease of use” features on web applications
(One-click purchase), for example.

## How They Work

CSRF attacks work by sending a rogue HTTP request from an authenticated
user's browser to the application, which then commits a transaction
without authorization given by the target user. As long as the user is
authenticated and a meaningful HTTP request is sent by the user’s
browser to a target application, the application does not know if the
origin of the request is a valid transaction or a link clicked by the
user (that was, say, in an email) while the user is authenticated to the
application. So, for example, using CSRF, an attacker makes the victim
perform actions that they didn't intend to, such as logout, purchase
item, change account information, or any other function provided by the
vulnerable website.

An Example below of a HTTP POST to a ticket vendor to purchase a number
of tickets.

`POST `<http://TicketMeister.com/Buy_ticket.htm>` HTTP/1.1`
`Host: ticketmeister`
`User-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh; U; PPC Mac OS X Mach-O;) Firefox/1.4.1`
`Cookie: JSPSESSIONID=34JHURHD894LOP04957HR49I3JE383940123K`
`ticketId=ATHX1138&to=PO BOX 1198 DUBLIN 2&amount=10&date=11042008`

The response of the vendor is to acknowledge the purchase of the
tickets:

`HTTP/1.0 200 OK`
`Date: Fri, 02 May 2008 10:01:20 GMT`
`Server: IBM_HTTP_Server`
`Content-Type: text/xml;charset=ISO-8859-1`
`Content-Language: en-US`
`X-Cache: MISS from app-proxy-2.proxy.ie`
`Connection: close`


<?xml version="1.0" encoding="ISO-8859-1"?>

<pge_data>` Ticket Purchased, Thank you for your custom.`
</pge_data>

## How to Locate the Potentially Vulnerable Code

This issue is simple to detect, but there may be compensating controls
around the functionality of the application which may alert the user to
a CSRF attempt. As long as the application accepts a well formed HTTP
request and the request adheres to some business logic of the
application CSRF shall work (From now on we assume the target user is
logged into the system to be attacked).

By checking the page rendering we need to see if any unique identifiers
are appended to the links rendered by the application in the user's
browser. If there is no unique identifier relating to each HTTP request
to tie a HTTP request to the user, we are vulnerable. Session ID is not
enough, as the session ID shall be sent anyway if a user clicks on a
rogue link, as the user is authenticated already.

### Transaction Drive Thru

#### An eye for an eye, A request for a request

When an HTTP request is received by the application, one should examine
the business logic to assess when a transaction request is sent to the
application that the application does not simply execute, but responds
to the request with another request for the user's password.

`Line`

`1 String actionType = Request.getParameter("Action");`
`2  if(actionType.equalsIgnoreCase("BuyStuff"){`
`4     Response.add("Please enter your password");`
`5     return Response;`
`6  }`

In the above pseudo code, we would examine if an HTTP request to commit
a transaction is received, and if the application responds to the user
request for a confirmation (in this case re-enter a password).

The Flow below depicts the logic behind anti-CSRF transaction
management:

[image:CSRF-Flow.GIF](image:CSRF-Flow.GIF "wikilink")

## Vulnerable Patterns for CSRF

**Any application that accepts HTTP requests from an authenticated user
without having some control to verify that the HTTP request is unique to
the user's session.** (Nearly all web applications\!\!). Session ID is
not in scope here as the rogue HTTP request shall also contain a valid
session ID, as the user is authenticated already.

## Good Patterns and procedures to prevent CSRF

Checking if the request has a valid session cookie is not enough, we
need to check if a unique identifier is sent with every HTTP request
sent to the application. CSRF requests WON'T have this valid unique
identifier. The reason CSRF requests won't have this unique request
identifier is the unique ID is rendered as a hidden field on the page
and is appended to the HTTP request once a link/button press is
selected. The attacker will have no knowledge of this unique ID, as it
is random and rendered dynamically per link, per page.

1.  A list is compiled prior to delivering the page to the user. The
    list contains all valid unique IDs generated for all links on a
    given page. The unique ID could be derived from a secure random
    generator such as SecureRandom for J2EE.
2.  A unique ID is appended to each link/form on the requested page
    prior to being displayed to the user.
3.  Maintaining a list of unique IDs in the user session, the
    application checks if the unique ID passed with the HTTP request is
    valid for a given request.
4.  If the unique ID is not present, terminate the user session and
    display an error to the user.

## User Interaction

Upon committing to a transaction, such as fund transfer, display an
additional decision to the user, such as a requirement for one’s
password to be entered and verified prior to the transaction taking
place. A CSRF attacker would not know the password of the user and
therefore the transaction could not be committed via a stealth CSRF
attack.

## Related Articles

[CSRF Guard](https://owasp.org/www-project-csrfguard/)

[Category:OWASP Code Review
Project](Category:OWASP_Code_Review_Project "wikilink")
[Category:Identity Theft](Category:Identity_Theft "wikilink")
